README.md, before:

 HEAD
# Project 2 - File Tree Simulator
 HEAD
 dd3f456 (Initial Commit)


In this project, you will be simulating a Unix file system using a tree. This is based off of section 2.13 in the textbook. Feel free to read that section for additional help and ideas.

## Problem Statement

We have seen a lot of useful commands so far, such as: **mkdir**, **rmdir**, **ls**, **pwd**, and **cd**. As we begin to study C, it turns out that there is an interesting application of a data structure called a _tree_ which allows us to simulate these commands in code. Though this project is only in C, it will be a good review for your Unix knowledge. For simplicity, we won't be implementing flags on commands.

A tree is a data structure (more specifically, graphs) which you'll see in *Data Structures & Algorithms*, *Discrete Math*, and again in *Algorithms*. For more on trees, read [trees.md](trees.md).

Your task on this project is to use a tree to simulate the **mkdir** command in Linux file system tree, where nodes represent files and directories along a path.

**Important Note**: For this project, we are **only** asking you to implement the **mkdir** command and the code to run it. You are **not** implementing any other commands, though that would be fun. ;)

## Supplemental Commands

We have already implemented **ls**, **pwd**, **cd**, and other commands for you (you may view these by typing menu when prompted for a command). You can use these commands while running your program to test if your mkdir is working correctly.

These fundamental commands function the same as in a standard linux terminal:

- cd: change directory, allows for the traversal between directories
- ls: list directory contents, displays files and directories within the current directory
- pwd: print working directory, shows the full path of the current directory.

## Tips

A good way to approach this project may be the following:
- Implement the main() function, including the switch case for commands. Implement findCmd() to help.
- Initialize any Node structs or variables you might need.
- Implement the tokenizer using `strtok`: split strings based on delimiter ("/"); store tokens so that they can be used later in the program (splitting dirName and pathName for example)
- Implement mkdir functionality
    - Handle whether path is absolute or relative
	- Create a new directory node
	- Ensure that the directory node is properly connected (make sure it is the child/sibling of the proper node) and initialized. (fileType = 'D', childPtr = null, etc.)

## Input Format

Your program will take in input via stdin until the `quit` instruction is entered, in which case the program should end.

Input will be a string involving (perhaps erroneously - think of edge cases!) mkdir and paths.

## Output Format

Your code should print to stdout in the following formats, in each respective scenario:
```
OUTPUT ERROR: invalid command
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: directory <DIRECTORY> already exists
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: subdirectory <DIRECTORY> on path does not exist
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: no path provided
// or
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node <NODE> created
```

## Sample Executions

### Sample Execution 1

Input
```
mkdir /a
mkdir /b
quit
```

Output
```
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node a created
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node b created
```

### Sample Execution 2

Input
```
mkdir /a/b
mkdir /a
mkdir /a/b
quit
```

Output
```
OUTPUT ERROR: subdirectory a on path does not exist
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node a created
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node b created
```
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD

## Development Notes & Roadmap

## Part 1: Implement tokenizer (using strtok) and main (switch case and gets pathname if there is one)

### MAIN:
	- Switch case
	- FindCMD
	- Node struct 
	- Initialize Node

### TOKENIZER:
	- Split strings based on delimiter ("/")
	- Store tokens so that they can be used later in the program (splitting dirName and pathName for example)

## Part 2: Implement mkdir functionality
	- Handle whether path is absolute or relative
	- Create a new directory node
	- Ensure that the directory node is properly connected (make sure it is the child/sibling of the proper node) and initialized. (fileType = 'D', childPtr = null, etc.)
 1555a17 (Updated the README with the basic outline)

=======
>>>>>>> b6a27b5 (Update README.md)
=======

### Sample Execution 3

Input
```
mkdir a/b
mkdir a
mkdir a/b
quit
```

Output
```
FAIL - Directory a does not exist
SUCCESS - Node a successfully created
SUCCESS - Node a/b successfully created
```

### Sample Execution 4

Input
```
mkdir a
mkdir b
quit
```

Output
```
SUCCESS - Node a successfully created
SUCCESS - Node b successfully created
```
>>>>>>> f7c611c (Update README.md)

Commit message:

Removed reference to tree.md
Removed reference to tree.md and added a reference to the related sections in the textbook on trees.

README.md, after:

 HEAD
# Project 2 - File Tree Simulator
 HEAD
 dd3f456 (Initial Commit)


In this project, you will be simulating a Unix file system using a tree. This is based off of section 2.13 in the textbook. Feel free to read that section for additional help and ideas.

## Problem Statement

We have seen a lot of useful commands so far, such as: **mkdir**, **rmdir**, **ls**, **pwd**, and **cd**. As we begin to study C, it turns out that there is an interesting application of a data structure called a _tree_ which allows us to simulate these commands in code. Though this project is only in C, it will be a good review for your Unix knowledge. For simplicity, we won't be implementing flags on commands.

A tree is a data structure (more specifically, graphs) which you'll see in *Data Structures & Algorithms*, *Discrete Math*, and again in *Algorithms*. For more on trees and dynamic structures, refer to the course textbook sections 2.10-2.13 (Wang, Systems Programming in Unix/Linux).

Your task on this project is to use a tree to simulate the **mkdir** command in Linux file system tree, where nodes represent files and directories along a path.

**Important Note**: For this project, we are **only** asking you to implement the **mkdir** command and the code to run it. You are **not** implementing any other commands, though that would be fun. ;)

## Supplemental Commands

We have already implemented **ls**, **pwd**, **cd**, and other commands for you (you may view these by typing menu when prompted for a command). You can use these commands while running your program to test if your mkdir is working correctly.

These fundamental commands function the same as in a standard linux terminal:

- cd: change directory, allows for the traversal between directories
- ls: list directory contents, displays files and directories within the current directory
- pwd: print working directory, shows the full path of the current directory.

## Tips

A good way to approach this project may be the following:
- Implement the main() function, including the switch case for commands. Implement findCmd() to help.
- Initialize any Node structs or variables you might need.
- Implement the tokenizer using `strtok`: split strings based on delimiter ("/"); store tokens so that they can be used later in the program (splitting dirName and pathName for example)
- Implement mkdir functionality
    - Handle whether path is absolute or relative
	- Create a new directory node
	- Ensure that the directory node is properly connected (make sure it is the child/sibling of the proper node) and initialized. (fileType = 'D', childPtr = null, etc.)

## Input Format

Your program will take in input via stdin until the `quit` instruction is entered, in which case the program should end.

Input will be a string involving (perhaps erroneously - think of edge cases!) mkdir and paths.

## Output Format

Your code should print to stdout in the following formats, in each respective scenario:
```
OUTPUT ERROR: invalid command
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: directory <DIRECTORY> already exists
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: subdirectory <DIRECTORY> on path does not exist
// or
OUTPUT ERROR: no path provided
// or
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node <NODE> created
```

## Sample Executions

### Sample Execution 1

Input
```
mkdir /a
mkdir /b
quit
```

Output
```
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node a created
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node b created
```

### Sample Execution 2

Input
```
mkdir /a/b
mkdir /a
mkdir /a/b
quit
```

Output
```
OUTPUT ERROR: subdirectory a on path does not exist
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node a created
OUTPUT SUCCESS: node b created
```
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD

## Development Notes & Roadmap

## Part 1: Implement tokenizer (using strtok) and main (switch case and gets pathname if there is one)

### MAIN:
	- Switch case
	- FindCMD
	- Node struct 
	- Initialize Node

### TOKENIZER:
	- Split strings based on delimiter ("/")
	- Store tokens so that they can be used later in the program (splitting dirName and pathName for example)

## Part 2: Implement mkdir functionality
	- Handle whether path is absolute or relative
	- Create a new directory node
	- Ensure that the directory node is properly connected (make sure it is the child/sibling of the proper node) and initialized. (fileType = 'D', childPtr = null, etc.)
 1555a17 (Updated the README with the basic outline)

=======
>>>>>>> b6a27b5 (Update README.md)
=======

### Sample Execution 3

Input
```
mkdir a/b
mkdir a
mkdir a/b
quit
```

Output
```
FAIL - Directory a does not exist
SUCCESS - Node a successfully created
SUCCESS - Node a/b successfully created
```

### Sample Execution 4

Input
```
mkdir a
mkdir b
quit
```

Output
```
SUCCESS - Node a successfully created
SUCCESS - Node b successfully created
```
>>>>>>> f7c611c (Update README.md)
